This is good.
Now we have access to reducts
inside of our applications.
Let's go ahead and
delete adopted pet context coz
we're not gonna use that anymore.
So you can just delete
that from your app and
make a file called adoptedPetSlice.js.
What is a slice?
A slice is kind of a new idea for Redux
Toolkit, but basically it's the idea of,
I'm putting all the reducers,
and action creators and
all that stuff together in
one particular bundle, right?
That the term that they use to
describe that bundle of putting
everything together is a slice.
So import, create slice
from at Redux toolkit.
And then we're going to export const
adoptedPetSlice = createSlice, so
first of all you have to give it a name.
What is the name of the slice this
name is the adoptedPet, okay.
The initial state, we have to give us some
sort of initial state of like what we
want this particular item in our little
database to be when you first create it.
So we're going to give it a value of null,
I don't want it to be set to anything
right because no pet has been adopted
until they click the AdoptPet button.
And then we're gonna give
it a bunch of reducers.
You can give it a bunch of reducers,
I'm gonna give it just one reducer.
This is going to be the adopt reducer.
So what is a reducer?
A reducer is just a fancy term for, it's
a function that takes an old state and
something that you wanna
change about the old state.
We'll call that an action.
And all it does is it takes an old state.
It performs some action to it and
returns new state.
So in this case, I'm gonna say
state.value is assigned action.payload.
So whenever someone adopts something,
we're just saying,
this is now the adoptedPet, right?
We're not doing any math.
We're not doing anything like that.
We're just saying that this
is the new state, right?
But I mean,
I don't know let's say it was important
that the name be to uppercase, right?
You could do all that stuff here.
This is your opportunity
to change the state.
Does that make sense?
This is kind of a weird API,
I mean, it's very succinct, right?
But if you come from a functional
programming background,
it feels really weird to
operate on your parameters.
It's okay,
I promise it's okay to do it this way.
Yeah, that's what you're supposed to do.
Okay, export const (adopt)
equals adoptedPetSlice.actions and
export default adoptedPetSlice.reducer.
So I'm just kind of taking this
pattern from their documentation.
Whenever you create a reducer,
it automatically creates an action for
you, so this is a little bit of
black magic cure for redox toolkit.
I created this reducer, under the hood it
then goes and creates an action for me.
So now I have this ability to
create actions that I can send it
to this reducer.
So later if I click, adoptLuna,
I can use this function to send that into
the reducer, and it just kind of all the
parts automatically fit together for you.
It's a little indirect, but
it also was very annoying
to have to write this code.
I mean basically all
this function does is,
function pet return,
action or payload pet.
I think this is basically
all this function does,
is it just wraps it into
an action object for you.
It also, it will give it like a type
of like adopt, something like that.
That's all an action creator does is it
takes in some sort of bit of information
and it wraps it into like a formal object
that you can then give to reducers.
So, this little black magic key,
but at the at the end of the day,
this is all it's doing.
So it's just nice to not have to
repeat yourself so many times.
Again, if you go watch version four
of this course I make you do all this
by hand, and it's very annoying to do it.
Okay, so there you go, that is a slice.
That's everything, that there is a slice.
Like, we're not going to do it now, but
you can imagine that there would be like
an adoptReducer,
where it takes in a state and action.
And all this would do is like
state.value equals null, right?
And then you would have
an unadopted function.
And you could like click like an X on our
interface node and adopt a pet right?
So anything that you would do to
modify the adoptedPet would go
into this reducers array.
Okay, that make sense?
Okay, so for now, we're just gonna
have one, but you can imagine you
could have anything that happens
to affect that would happen here.
Okay.
So go back to store.js, and
here we're just gonna add dot Reducer.
So import adoptedPet,
slice from adoptedPet.
I'm gonna call this just adopt,
adoptedPet.
And we'll put adoptPet there.
And there we go.
You have to give this to the store or
it doesn't know anything about it, right,
so we're providing the reducer to
the adoptedPet slice to the store.